---
permalink: /
title: Navigating Stories in Times of Transition: The COVID-19 Pandemic as a Use Case
---
This project aims to develop eScience technologies to advance multidisciplinary approaches of digital storytelling. When societal transitions happen, people respond by telling stories that create continuity and change. In a digital age, storytelling has become even more abundant, rich in variety, and accelerating in pace. The current _COVID-19 pandemic_ allows to study storytelling while transitions are happening. In a multidisciplinary team, we analyze how the varieties of stories evolve over time and across different media. eScience challenges include (1) integrating existing _Natural Language Processing_ tools to extract and preprocess stories from existing and growing collections; (2) further developing _Digital Story Grammar_ methodology to study narrative components in their mutual relations; (3) building a _Story Navigator_ that uses visualization tools, while also allowing for human interpretation; and (4) integrating the tools into the _Orange_ platform to allow re-use by students and researchers. We cooperate with national infrastructures, develop online tutorials, and organize a hands-on workshop to facilitate dissemination and long-term use. Interdisciplinary narrative studies will thus be enriched with necessary tools to analyze storytelling in a digital age as it unfolds in real time across different media and platforms. This can also support sustainable policy making in times of transition.
.
